---
title: Doubt
summary: "Self doubt can come from the smallest of things. It's important to not overestimate yourself."
date: 2020-06-23 22:31:15 +0100
micro: true
categories:
 - "Micro"
---
Sometimes, I see myself as a problem solver. Someone who can find a way out of any problem or technical hurdle, usually in clever and unique ways.

Other times, I see myself as a failure whose code has bugs and struggles with even simple things.

This past few weeks, I've been bashing my head against the same project. It's a project that I thought was complete months ago, but I keep finding little bugs in it. Every time, I go in and solve a bug, only to introduce another bug, or discover another bug. Eventually I'll get to a point where everything seems to be working, only for my client to show me a new bug that I've never even encountered before.

It gets worse when I think I've solved a bug because I've tested it against all the cases I know about, but then it later it manifests due to a completely different root cause. Again, it gets worse if I told my client that it was fixed - I thought it was - but it wasn't. The specific case I'm referring to here is complicated because it isn't really a bug, but I have to trying to mitigate the problem anyway (aka I'm receiving bad input).

When I have problems like this - where the same software just has bug after bug after bug - it makes me feel like I'm in the wrong career. Yes, I can solve these problems, but maybe I should have been able to avoid them in the first place, or detected them sooner.

It makes me feel like I'm *not* the person who should be planning to start new projects. We'll just end up in the same situation again where we find problem after problem.

I know that this set of feelings is some combination of Dunning-Kruger in the good times, and Imposter Syndrome in the bad times. I'm not the only person whose software has bugs; they're just more critical than usual for me because I can't usually patch my products once shipped. And I can't solve any problem, it's just part of my self esteem to think that I can.