---
title: Welcome To This Micro Blog
summary: "An introduction to my new micro blogging project."
date: 2020-05-01 12:11:55 +0100
micro: true
categories:
 - "Micro"
---

Welcome to this daily microblog! I don't have a hosting solution set up for this yet - I'm just writing text files - so this will be a few days old by the time you read this.

What is it? Well, it's a tiny blog that I'll write something to every day.

I'm inspired by my friend Pat Walls here, so I'll just go straight ahead and quote him. I'm sure he won't mind.

<blockquote>I'd like to write every day, and I plan to make that a commitment going forward. It doesn't matter how long it is - I want to treat this more like a diary. <br/>
 I can literally type two sentences, or I can write 3000 words, or I can record a YouTube video, or even a tweet. Maybe, it will often just be updates on what I worked on that day, really boring stuff :) <br/>
 -- <cite>Pat Walls, <i><a href="https://patwallsdaily.herokuapp.com/this-new-blog">This New Blog</a></i></cite></blockquote>

I check in every day or every few days to see what Pat has been up to. He's been doing it religiously for six or seven months now. On the rare occasion he misses it, he donates to charity or buys a subscription to another entrepreneurs' product. Smart. I find Pat's writing and insights more interesting than his products, though I think I'm like that with a long of people/things.

For a brief time in 2018/19, my friend Daniel was daily blogging every day and I really enjoyed reading what he was writing, too, especially whilst he was travelling to new places.

I first tried to do this back in January. I succeeded for three weeks before my life blew up and this little experiment got left in the dust.

So here goes Attempt #2!



