---
layout: post
title: "Extract Wav File Data for Code"
date: 2020-02-03 12:58:10 +0800
background: ""
background-color: ""
summary: "A python script to process WAV files; removing silence, changing resolution, and outputting specific numbers of samples."
categories:
 - "Tutorials"
 - "Projects"
---

**Back in 2018, I developed Seismograf, a Eurorack module that outputs drum samples. I wanted a way of quickly trying out different samples, so [wrote a python script that would automate the processing and conversion of WAV files for me](/seismograf/#wav-manipulation), outputting the samples in a format that I could easily paste into code. I didn't plan on sharing that script, but I recently saw someone trying to do the same thing on Facebook and figured it might be worth sharing my script.**

For Seismograf, I needed 10 bit samples that would fit neatly into 'power of two' length blocks like 1024 words or 2048 words (where a word was 14 bits long).

I wanted to be able to trial many different samples quickly, so I really didn't want to have to waste time in a sound processing program manually trimming away silence, or amplifying the sound, or downsampling to 10 bit, or whatever. That would be really time consuming, so I tried to automate those tasks and wrote a python script to do it all for me.

It outputs a txt file containing comma-separated decimal-representations of the wav file in a specified resolution and with a specified number of steps

I saw a synth DIY'er wanting to do similar on Facebook (actually I was tagged in the post), so figured I'd share this script.

# Use The Script

[Get the script here.](https://gist.github.com/Jetroid/e1f8c3234d9831b90fd19d8aadb609a1)

Then, install python's `wave` library:

```
pip install wave
```

Then you can execute the program like this (make sure you're using python 3):

```
python waveread.py /path/to/sound.wav r s
```

where `r` represents the resolution in bits, and `s` represents the number of samples in bits.

So for example, to process the file `bassdrum.wav`, and output 4096 samples (4096 = 2^12) that have 10 bit resolution, run the script like this:

```
python waveread.py ./bassdrum.wav 10 12
```

# What this script does

You provide it with three parameters: the filename; the resolution in bits; and the number of steps in bits (ie 11 bit steps = 2048 total samples outputted)

The script then

* Opens the wav file you give it.
* Attempts to find the start and end of the sample, then crops away any silence
* Rescales the audio so that the loudest (highest amplitude) part of the sample is equal to the highest/lowest possible value for your given resolution. (ie: All wav files processed will have the same 'loudness')
* Determines the ratio `n` between the number of samples needed and the number of samples available. Example: if the cropped wav file has 8192 samples, and we want to output 2048 samples, then the ratio `n = 4.0`
* Selects every `n`th sample from the cropped wav. Therefore we get the correct number of samples.
* Writes all of the new samples to a `.txt` file with the same name as wav file, in the same directory as the wav file. The data is represented as decimals. Each sample is separated by a comma. For ease of viewing, a line break has been inserted every 16 samples.

# What this script does not do

* Losslessly recreate the sample. By definition, some data is lost to A) downsampling to the correct resolution. B) downsampling to the correct number of steps.
* It doesn't have an option to output every sample in a wav file / output non-power-of-two numbers of samples. Sorry, but I wrote this for my needs and I needed specific numbers of samples. The script will probably be
* Correct the centerline / silence line / zero line. (I'm not sure what to call this). If your sample has 'zero' (silence) as a value above or below that, this script will not correct that, and may manipulate the sample incorrectly.

# Please credit

If you use this script for anything other than personal use, please credit myself (Jet Holt) and Frequency Central.

Example:

"Thanks to [Jet Holt](https://jetholt.com) and [Frequency Central](https://frequencycentral.co.uk) for waveread.py."

Include hyperlinks to [jetholt.com](https://jetholt.com) and [https://frequencycentral.co.uk](https://frequencycentral.co.uk) where possible.